# DL-Road-Sign-CV
Group project for DATA 255 at SJSU

With the rise of advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS) and self-driving vehicles, the need for computer vision to quickly detect and classify traffic signs has increased. There are several challenges in processing traffic sign images in-luding blurring, warping, and full or partial obstruction. Haloi (2015) proposed a convolutional neural network (CNN) model for classification of the German Traffic Sign Recognition Benchmark (GTSRB) dataset. GTSRB has more than 50,000 images with 43 classes (found here: https://benchmark.ini.rub.de/gtsrb_dataset.html). The annotated images depict various target road signs in 3 channel color with varying size in pixel dimensions and brightness.

For our project, we have reconstructed Haloi’s model as a baseline, improved the baseline model performance by adding Bayesian inference, and implemented the following five transfer learning models for comparison: VGG16, ResNet50, GoogleNet(inceptionV3), MobileNet, EfficientNet, and Vision Transformer. We compared the test accuracy for all these models with hyperparameters tuning via Bayesian optimization and some without tuning on both the full test dataset and a subset of 50 blurry images from the test dataset.

After comparing several models, the modified Haloi (96%, 100% blurry) and Haloi with Bayesian inference (95%, 96% blurry) performed best. The Vision Transformer (95% untuned, 82%, 90% blurry) was the best performance transfer learning model while Efficient Net (10% untuned, 2%, 0% blurry) was
the worst. Other transfer learning models without tuning has 60-80% accuracy, and tuning caused some model performance to decrease by 13-58% and increase by 2-3%. The significant decrease in performance after tuning for the VGG16 and ResNet50 models may have been cause by discrepancies in
early stopping hyperparameters, learning rate being too high, and the selection of SGD with momentum as the optimizer by the tuner. These possibilities warrant further research.
